2004 I started thinking about this
problem and one morning I woke up
because I was like why am I doing this
the same way that my grandfather did 60
years ago like literally filing cabinets
signing a check and paper that was never
in the right place like it was just so
frustrating and I started answering that
question as I was going to sleep came up
with this notion that wow the cloud
nobody called it the cloud back then
right the the cloud would enable two
entities to see the same transaction
from their perspective and the reason I
did by the URL from Mark benth is
because I can say here's your bill and
you can say you're paying the bill and
for me I'm getting money and you're
sending me money right it's two sides of
the same coins the network was always
part of what we wanted to do and I and
it always became part of the the
database design the workflow all that
was from the beginning like we know
we're going to go there but when that's
going to be a different time and so I
think the mo part is that it takes time
businesses just take time to adopt
please welcome Jason lkin founder and
CEO at saster and Renee lert CEO and
founder at bill um hey everybody thanks
for waking up on day three here after
the parties and the blurry eyes I know I
had a little trouble getting out of
bed but I here with one of my favorite
entrepreneurs CEOs Renee lert from
bill.com Rene I both started as Founders
probably at the same time but we didn't
know each other but we started when I
started Adobe sign Echo sign that was
just about when Bill started and I
thought I did terrible like I went you
started in 2006 too something like that
start at the same time I sold in 2011
accidentally we were at a million a
month growing 100% 120% NR I thought I
was failing Renee kept going in a few
years I don't think you're any bigger
probably in 2011 we think smaller right
a few years later he's at 1.4 billion
revenue and IPO so that's that's two
orders of magnitude better but it's a
reminder of how it all compounds isn't
it it's pretty
oh it's amazing yeah and thanks for
having me here and I don't know if folks
are really know how much they owe to you
like you have been bringing together the
community to learn about how to build
better companies and so thank you for
doing that I've always loved everything
you're do in Sasser and everything you
did at echosign so super happy to be
here thank you thank
yeah I'm gonna ask Rene briefly to tell
us about Bill if you don't know it but
I'll preview it here just to thank you
we've actually run saster since the
beginning on Bill but I'm going to use
it as a case study to talk about some
things that are interesting in terms of
stakeholders Channel Partners cuz it's
all even for us and we're saster is
weird we're six people pushing 22
million a year through
bill and I didn't choose it I knew Rene
but actually our our County and finance
team picked it brought it in but I love
it because it's all if I have to review
manage all this going I just go in I'm
Mr dashboards I'm the boss the only time
in my life I've ever had a dashboard and
I love it but we'll talk through it but
literally we could not I think Bill is
my single favorite app because we
couldn't run saster without it so it's a
good thing that's awesome thank you so
much so I want to talk through that but
tell me a little bit for the folks that
don't know all of Bill give give us your
the 2024 summary of the company yeah so
when I set out in 2006 the focus was to
really Define a category around
Financial operations if you think about
everything that happens in your
accounting system yeah it really is a
record of a transaction and what about
everything up to that transaction which
is the dashboard you're talking about
how do you know whether you should pay
the bill whether you should collect on
the receivable the employees that are
collaborating are they happy with it or
not all these things were transactional
activities that were not something that
had been automated and so for me that
all drain time from smbs and from Focus
that was going to help them go pursue
their passion and if we could actually
figure out that workflow and automate
all of that we earn the right to do
payments and we'll talk about that y but
that would actually simplify the s&b's
life and so for everything that I've
wanted to do is to just make life better
for snbs and have a great place to work
and having that Focus consistently has
allowed us to keep going back to are we
doing that today and I feel like we're
doing that today but we still got a lot
more room to go so yeah we automate AP
we automate AR we have spending expense
all the card payments that you need on a
business which is growing very fast for
us we have insights and forecasting now
that kind of come create more dashboards
for the business owner and the Finance
team and all of that is creating I don't
know 50 to 75% Time Savings for our
customers that's what they tell us 80%
of accountants say they actually can do
more work and have the bigger business
because of bill so like all these things
matter right and we're just like I said
just getting started and remind me I
know I have it in here but how many
customers do you have today yeah so we
have around 475,000 on the platform
475,000 yeah yeah and that's on the on
all three kind of original platforms if
you will that's bill that's divy that's
invoice to go on the core bill it's
probably around 250,000 okay so I want
to dig into it but at a high level
you've got your pulse on 475,000 small
businesses are we in a
downturn the the way we describe this is
I would say a year ago and we talked
about this in on earnings there was
contraction not a lot of contraction but
businesses I would have said a year ago
that businesses actually were in a
recession because we saw year-over year
economy wasn't but businesses were
holding they were keeping their cash as
long as they can keep their cash which
is what everybody here I'm sure did did
and was trying to do and probably still
doing but what we've seen this year is
more stabilization in the last maybe
three quarters and so I call this the
weit and see economy this is nobody's
investing for growth the way they were
three years ago which is crazy people
were just investing investing obviously
the AI category is Investing For growth
but all the other SM smbs we see they're
pretty much yeah they're flat year-over
year they're spent per customers flat
year over year which means that they're
waiting because there's money there and
people just haven't been investing it
yet but at a meta level so I might be
wrong on this okay maybe it's because
I'm the dashboard guy as a bill customer
I think Bill's cheap I think Bill and
maybe it's not true for your smallest
customers could you challenge me right
but I put put Bill canva a couple apps
only a couple apps that are no cheap
compared to value I actually honestly
don't care what it costs right and maybe
that's because of the amount we're
running through versus headcount but if
when you're cheap and you can tell me
you're not cheap you can tell but but if
you are shouldn't you almost be immune
to some of these effects because it's so
cost effective to deploy a bill like it
almost shouldn't matter little macro
bubbles shouldn't it the effect I was
talking about was more the spend per
customer so we've grown customers right
and so that sense we are immune like we
keep adding customers roughly 45,000 a
quarter we've been doing that for a
while that's very consistent growth for
us so I I think what what we see we are
we aim to provide a lot of value so if
you say we're cheap that's I'm happy
that you've got a lot of value out of it
right we look at pricing on a consistent
basis and we are trying to maximize
adoption in and typically what we find
is that once people are on it 90 days
that's when they start seeing the real
value you've been on and out a number of
years and so then that creates even more
value and our goal was to get people in
on subscription we'll talk more about
that later and then earn the right to do
these transactions which then allow us
to make more money so we make more money
on all the spend that you have yeah not
just on the subscription fees and so
we're trying we're managing our gross
margins across all of it and we feel
good about the gross margins we have
obviously from time to time we raise
pricing but the focus is making sure
that we're creating the value that
customers need and that's what creates
word of mouth I get we'll get to that in
a second I I it's an obvious point I
missed since so much of your revenue
does come from transactions related you
might not have the same macro
sensitivity to the core subscription
price but you're going to have a lot on
transactions if things are going good
stuff's going to be flowing through the
system but people are nervous the
variable piece is going to be highly
tied to macro issues right yeah yeah
just the spend right yeah when there's
High inflation then like this conference
cost more this year to put on than last
year then we got more spend but when
there's contraction and people are then
you end up saying we're not spending as
much so we we are dependent on the macro
and that's something that you have to
plan for because not everybody
understands it okay one question I want
ask on Bill just on us as as a customer
and then we'll dig into some other stuff
the different stakeholders those of us
that have done Enterprise all get that
there's multiple stakeholders there's
the person at the top that literally
gets emailed the dashboard doesn't even
log in to Salesforce just gets all they
care about is the pipeline Rapport right
there's the folks in the middle managing
their team and there folks at the bottom
of Salesforce pulling their hair out
because they have to input data right
there may be some of that a bill right
because I'm somehow I'm Mark benoff in
our little company all I it's a gift for
me I log in it says I have to prove
these 10 expenses if I want I can look
at the invoice I can see the history if
I trust them I'm in and out four minutes
this is why it's my gift from heaven for
me yeah but there's other stakeholders
right then there's folks in the in our
management that have to deal with it and
there's folks that have to manage the
vendors is there different NPS for the
segments how do you think about what are
your learnings of making them all happy
Yeah there definitely are different
satisfactions and work streams Around
The NPS across each of those
stakeholders I think the first thing I
would say is that for the smallest
businesses where it's owner operated the
mobile phone end up being the dominant
source of how they manage all of their
activity and it's very simple like you
said like you get up and do stuff when
you get a little bit bigger let's say
it's 20 50 100 transactions a month then
you probably have an accounting person
that's actually in bill every day and
that's the for stakeholder is it it
might even be out probably outsourced it
could be outsourc it could be an AP
clerk it could many times it's an office
manager that's actually taking the
documents in and getting it into
Bill and then you get to people that
need to approve because even here at
saster there sure there are some things
that you don't want to pay for and
improve until somebody else on your team
has looked at it so you're owner you're
an approver payer and then we have just
an approver right and for them the
mobile phone's totally fine and then
there's the clerk if you will that's
getting the data entry and then the
accountant might be overseeing all of it
and then there's the Strategic insights
that we provide so definitely different
we're at different points in evolution I
think the mobile phone users they have
the highest MPS right it's just super
simple and super easy yeah I think the
opportunity for us to continue to refine
the clerk is the one that's actually
pulling everything in and managing it
and there's just always more we can do
we use a lot of AI there's a lot more we
can do on it there and you have to pay P
attention to each of these stakeholders
because it's a different experience so
when you have multiple stakeholders and
you can have different levels of
satisfaction with the app it's hard for
the org not to focus on the ones buying
yeah because because well okay the the
classic AE at inputting Salesforce data
ain't buying and whether they like
Salesforce or don't or want to use
HubSpot or pipe it doesn't M it just
doesn't it's hard to and you can push
your product team how do as a Founder Co
how do you get folks to focus on the
other stakeholders yeah so it evolves
over time so when when we were small and
running a house in pal
Alto I see folks Mark who worked with me
back then yeah we were in a house right
and we all did customer support and we
all actually were connected to the
customer because and every stakeholder
because you're all doing it together
right as we've grown and there are times
when we haven't been as connected but as
we've grown now we have programs across
the company to get employees connected
to customers and that's how you see the
stakeholder experience right so we force
to let all employees use the product
themselves hopefully they get all of it
but I think you have to create programs
at our size and scale you just have to
and that's what we're doing to actually
create that connection that is just for
Insider to how do you get how many
employees at Bill we're 2200 now 22 and
how do you get all of them to use bill
experience Bill get in the L A lot of
folks give up no matter what they say
they give up it's right I don't think we
have all of them using it I would love
all of them using it but I think we
anybody in product management is using
it anybody in engineering is using it
the question is everyone engineering
uses Bill yes but I'm not sure how much
they're using it they might just be
using it for one or two bills a month
whereas like I use it personally for
everything and there's a lot of activity
if you have had kids and you have
mortgage you got a lot of bills every
month and obviously some of them could
be on auto pay but you could take them
off auto pay so that you experience it
and so we we have classes so to speak on
that we encourage people to do that and
I think it's the definitely what I would
say to folks is it does start at the top
like I will go into any road map
discussion and I will be talking about
the product I'm in the ux slack Channel
I'm reporting bugs and that helps people
know that hey this is valued in the
culture that we all need to use the
application and understand the customer
experience yeah I'm shocked how many
folks as company
scale don't use the product or don't
know and sometimes it's hard you have to
find a way right I remember back when we
were both getting started these
companies there into it had a Founder
day and went and one of I guess the
founders said it maybe it was Apocrypha
but said still everyone into it had to
do support once a month or something
like so I brought that in and my
Engineers almost killed me but forever
as long as I ran it every single
employee did support maybe that doesn't
work at 2200 but if you can find some
version of it it's so what we do now is
we run we have support hours where
anybody can join and watch support get
done I Shadow so it could be chat it
could be a phone video right but and so
you're shadowing and we have multiple of
those a week and that helps people get
connected so cool all right I want to I
want to talk about the present and the
future but first I want to talk about
going
long um it's a funny one today I and I
think a lot of folks are under some
folks are doing great right some folks
are under some stress some folks are
under stress ways we've never seen right
there are hot B2B companies that were
growing 100% at 100 million in 2021 that
growing Zer it's right I don't know if
you've seen some it's crazy and I going
alongs hard I don't know how you count
but I count you've been doing
this hold on is that 26 years if you
include pay Cycle Plus your parents were
in the your dad was in the software 2 25
years of the company I had started yeah
or co-founded and then to include what I
did with my parents and what I did for
small business add into it it's been 32
years that I've been building software
solutions for SBS so I've I I kind of
squint when companies get acquired or as
new Co comes in there's a group of folks
that can only go about five years
because you have to reinvent yourself
over five years then there's ones that
get burned out at 10 very few make it 20
even if they start maybe Mark
Zuckerberg but how do you feel today and
how do you do it how do you keep going
long there's a number of tips and tricks
that I share with folks the first one I
would say is really know your why like
when you get started like why you doing
this and for me it was to make a
difference forbs and to make a
difference for employees like I love
creating environment that people like
working at like it's just great 2200
people in general we have a very strong
culture and it's a unique place to to
spend your time and to advance your
career so you have those two were the
wise and when we were 10 employees it
was the same thing are we making a
difference on businesses today are we
making a better culture for the company
today and so that never changes I would
say that's the first thing the second
thing is there's multiple ways to set
goals and when I was adding to it the
the one that was dominant was something
called smart goals so specific
measurable achievable results oriented
and time bound and I never liked that
because it was Bottoms Up and I read a
book I don't know who gave it to me but
it was called hard goals and hard goals
are heartfelt yeah animated required and
then difficult and so the hard goal and
and knowing your why I'm never done like
I'm never going to be satisfied having
achieved my goal I feel very proud and
I'm very happy with what we've done but
no there's do we have the highest MPS
score that I would like to have no
there's always something to go do and so
what I when I focus on that is I I like
the people I'm working with because we
built the culture so I would enjoy that
and then we still have the same why to
go after and so that those two things
become motivations now then I would say
the other part of balance I would really
bring to you got to take care of
yourself like we've all seen this when
you fly if you have kids next to you
they tell you put the mask on yourself
before you put on your kid and I think I
was 12 years old when I'm like wow take
care of yourself because every parent
would want to save their kid before
themselves and yet you can't save your
kid unless you take care of yourself and
so for me just like understanding what
are the things that give me energy every
day so exercise every day that gives me
energy I eat well that gives me energy I
listen to music and a lot of times it's
by myself just listen to music that
gives me energy but having those things
that you can recharge yeah and so when
you're done with the 12-h hour day or 14
hour day just go sit down and listen to
music for 20 minutes it helps a lot so
that's how I make it go like that long
and I think it's being rooted in the why
having hard goals and being satisfied
being constructively dissatisfied is a
good thing in life and sometimes people
think well you're dissatisfied no I'm
constructively dissatisfied I don't let
it grow on me but no I can always do
better and that's great yeah I think I
may have my bill history wrong but I
think roughly there might have been two
inflection points it might have been
like five or six years until the whole
network came together so that the
product was seamless and then maybe
another maybe that I'm guessing 2015 or
something like that took a while right
yeah and then maybe another five years
for payments and all of that to come
together want to get the second part in
a minute but that first part
so did it take five or six years for
build to click I know you got millions
in Revenue but it took a while for this
Vision to get there so how did you see
it and sustain it when it didn't it it
was a six-year journey to build the
network side of the business yeah and
now it's 18 going on 20 right
and sometimes I'm asked which is a
similar question like when did you know
you had something yeah this is a
question all of us as Founders have like
when do you know you got something
special and I happen to be back home
visiting my dad
and
he I was getting ready to go do the demo
conference remember demo in the day and
so I gave it won't but I yeah so I was I
did my demo for him yeah and I've been
telling him for two years what I was
getting ready to go do right and what I
was working on and when he actually saw
the demo and he didn't cuss much he said
holy you're solving all the paying
points I've had for the last 40 years
running businesses at least you made dad
proud yeah and that but that helped
right because he was an entrepreneur a
Serial entrepreneur a parallel
entrepreneur he had done many businesses
and so when it's okay now I just have to
stick with it because he was a Visionary
type person he could see product
Innovation so now like when we went to
our first customers they're like I don't
need that Renee many of our first
customers some of them are friends which
probably is the way most of us get F
businesses on is you go to your friends
you go to people and so they're all like
no I don't need that I got a solution
like could you just try for me I'm like
okay I'll do it for you Renee and then
90 days later like I had no idea how
up was and that was a constant
theme yeah so when you know that you're
doing something that doesn't get done
before then that's how you you keep
going right yeah and I would say there
was an inflection point once we probably
had maybe 10,000 customers we could
start to see something happening that
the network was growing that's probably
about the time that we added the network
capabilities because to get started we
just sent checks out and we just sent a
and then okay now we need to make it
easy for the a to come in so let's
create the network and so when we
started seeing the virality of that and
how easy it was then we knew we had real
value but it also would take time so
then fast forward that probably was
let's say 2012 something like that fast
forward to 2017 when okay the business
is is starting to scale probably 2017
was 50 million revenue or something like
that and we had a network that was a
million or more and we that let's start
adding payment capabilities that was
always the plan and that created the
next and we got that launched by going
public in 2019 early days but that
created the early inflection point and
like I had one there many fun days in
Running Company but to be on a public
earnings call yeah and to be public and
to say we grew 300% year every year that
was a fun day and I knew I'd pay the
price later because you can't grow that
fast
forever a lot of AI companies are going
to learn that uh today but this network
you can Define it for a 7.1 members
using bill to pay each other tell us
about it but more importantly we talked
about how long AG is it a moat is it a
soft moat is it a deep moat a wide mode
is it not like Moes in B2B are
interesting because I didn't used to
think they exist in but they do exist
right they're just not always
impenetrable yeah so is it a mo and how
do you think about it as a mo I
definitely believe it's mode it's the
thing that got me most excited about the
business sometimes and everybody does
sometimes I get asked do you sleep well
like I always sleep well but when I
don't sleep well there's usually a few
nights a year when I'm not sleeping well
there's some problem usually it's a
problem that could either be the kids or
business right there's some problem that
needs to get solved when I don't sleep
well I think about other problems
because I do like problem solving and
that other problem will don't need sleep
so something going on at pay cycle in
2004 I started thinking about this
problem and one morning I woke up
because I was like why am I doing this
the same way that my grandfather did 60
years ago like literally filing cabinets
signing a check and paper that was never
in the right place like it was just so
frustrating and I started answering that
question as I was going to sleep came up
with this notion that wow the cloud
nobody called it the cloud back then
right the the cloud would enable two
entities to see the same transaction
from their perspective and the reason I
did buy the eurl from Mark benth is
because I can say here's your bill and
you can say you're paying the bill and
for me I'm getting money and you're
sending me money right it's two sides of
the same coin the network was always
part of what we wanted to do and I and
it always became part of the the
database design the workflow all that
was from the beginning like we know
we're going to go there but when that's
going to be a different time and so I
think the mo part is that it takes time
businesses just take time to adopt yeah
I don't think businesses are like
consumers where you get 100 million Tik
Tok users and whatever period of time
that they got it in it's just businesses
are thoughtful and the other thing you
think about is we move people's money I
sometimes give this example I can talk
to employees about really hard things
happening in their life and we will hug
each other and they will cry but they
won't be angry yeah we screw up one
payment and customers are angry and as a
business that moves money you have to be
prepared for that and so the network
this is part of the mo like we have to
do that exceptionally well 1% of GDP
goes through Bill 1% every year a
trillion dollars has been moved on the
platform The Last 5 Years that's a a lot
of money going all over the place
between people we don't know that we
have to do safely securely efficiently
fast all these things and that's the
mode it's it's all together but the
network is a part of that because 7.1
million means that when you sign up
today there's a chance that your vendor
is going to be there and that you don't
have to worry about figuring how to pay
them they're just part of Bill yeah and
we can go on for this but should know
this if I try I don't even know who
competes with Bill I've been a happy
customer for a decade but imagine I
wanted to go to another vendor right
what would happen and they don't have a
network how much switching costs would
there be like what would happen with all
these hundreds of vendors that saster
plugged into what because small
businesses don't have people they don't
have change management people they don't
have it teams well how much work is it
to move on or off a platform like this
it's like the size of the Moe right I I
think it's a lot there's a number of
things that now you've been honest for
10 years it's all the vendors you've
ever paid all the documents you've ever
had I think I blow my brains out to move
but maybe I'm wrong maybe I don't know
all those things the documents and so
the our mission statement is to make it
simple to connect and do business yeah
and when I you know blow out the word
connect it's connecting with your
documents with your employees with your
suppliers with your customers like all
that connecting is just part of a
transaction and you've got 10 years of
history and that's a hard thing to walk
away from you can leave but then you got
to go build all that up again like next
year you're doing this conference you're
like like who was that vendor that did
the posters for us yeah what did I pay
them last year oh that all the time
that's in bill I can't go look at that
so that's the sticky part on the network
side it is both the fact that we have
the connection like the bank account
like for every supplier that's in the
network all their Bank information is
there they don't have to worry about
trusting anybody else with it it's very
obviously secure the part that I think
becomes OTE competitively is we move
money and it's regulated and we do it
well I don't know any of our competitors
that are actually regulated that know
how to we have Regulators in our shop
all the time oh yeah yeah and it's going
to it's going to be more like that's
just the way regulation goes generally I
would say regulation's good is some is
there too much on some things probably
but in general when we have an auditor
come in from the state of Texas that
says we had another th tech company get
burned with this type of fraud how do
you guys protect on that type of fraud
we either we have the answer we're like
no good we hav had that yet let's go
build that into the platform that's the
mode right like it just keeps getting
bigger and bigger because of the
trillions of dollars that we've moved
yeah every time I get some email from
Bill it's like $50,000 showed up in your
account I'm like that's good don't
whatever business don't change that one
but it's but I had thought forgotten
about all the Regulatory and other
issues let's talk some meta questions
here software payments and more but all
the way through your IPO this chart was
like approaching 100% CL classic SAS
Revenue right yeah double digits per
month it's probably 85% but yeah yeah
85% and then all now fast forward today
we're at 19% from software crazy 81% at
1.3 1.4 billion in Revenue so maybe
first a meta question you probably don't
care but for the are you a software
company absolutely okay absolutely we
because it's the heart because there's
no point having rest right we don't get
to do your payments unless you love the
software that you just talked about yeah
like we are a software G we have to make
a great experience we have to make it so
that when you're going between buildings
you can actually pay a bill if you need
to on your phone right like you have to
be able to do that and so I think
software gives us the right to be able
to do payments and what we've really
focused on is that all of our customers
and suppliers they get choice on how
they make these
payments and that matters for you you
just want it done and you want as fast
as possible for the supplier suppliers
sometimes want to accelerate that
there's all sorts of things that they
might want an international currency
whatever they things that they need and
creating these different touch points we
have over 12 different payment revenue
streams and that's just a lot all of it
like I said regulated but all of it has
to be managed and tracked and risk is
taken on all of it and we manage that
and so I think there's software that you
see and then there's software that you
don't see and when we talk about AI like
that's a big part of our AI platform
it's like managing all that money
movement it's a lot yeah and maybe it's
not one you think about but if you look
at like toast they're trading a 15
billion pretty successful right do you
think their breakdown isn't wildly
different but the margins are the gross
margins are like 30 do you think they're
a software company or are they something
else I think they are a software company
I think they again they earn the right
to do essentially clear all the
restaurants revenues because they have
great software so and so you now walk us
through this a little bit we could spend
the whole time on it you it took you a
decade ad payments so many folks are
bolting it on as early as possible a
different topic but you did it yourself
you did it inhouse it took forever but
as a result you've got you have like 80%
gross margins yeah Shopify like 50 toast
is 30 yeah so I should understand the
trade-offs and how it works but can we
go because no one else has 80% gross
margins that I'm sounds like aofw comp
which sounds like a software company
yeah it almost I should know the
embarrassed say I don't know that but
and but no one does that so what does it
take to truly own every dollar of this
Revenue I think the first thing if you
set back to 2004 and five when I was
ideating and six when I started the
first thing I realize is that in order
for this to be simple yeah our smbs that
were going to be customers that I
couldn't make them do any work to
connect their bank
account headache I I had to be able to
feel comfortable that we could take the
money from you because you go it once
and then we could throw it all out to
all the people that you're going to work
with so the way this started day one is
we used I think quickin was no more and
I was too cheap to buy QuickBooks so I
bought Microsoft money and we printed
checks out of Microsoft money for early
customers the early experience by the
way was we did all these emails by hand
we just had an experience we hadn't
build any software but we were printing
checks and mailing them at the post
office so we and it was on the customer
account then the next thing was like no
okay now we'll put it into our account
and we'll send checks out and so what
that meant is once the money came to us
we knew that we were going to be
regulated and that's actually partly
what takes time I don't think we had all
of our license getting all the licenses
the mtl's money transmitt licenses
across all 50 states need 50 of them
right yeah yeah it was probably a
fiveyear effort at least of just and we
were trying to go we were going as fast
as we could but the states don't move
and I think we did a few first to make
sure we understood what it was but then
it we did try to move fast and it took a
while and I think when I think about the
payment piece and our ability to extend
it's you we're unique because we
centralized the money and we've learned
how to do that and how do you take how
do you build the trust with your
customer and how do you protect the fund
so that you don't get screwed and that's
the hard part when we've moved over time
the ability to say now we're paying
International supplier let's let them
choose do they want an fx transaction do
they want a local currency transaction
neither one of those would be fast do
they want a card transaction all these
things create opportunities but it's
because we know how to manage money and
we know how to manage the risk we know
how to make it happen and that the hard
part of the platform that I think
creates the moat that we were talking
about earlier and how big if you defined
it broadly how big is this sort of
compliance risk how much human capital
does it take to make this work in 50
across a trillion dollars of Revenue how
many what's the human
commitment the the ongoing effort so
there's an engineering team and a
product team that just works on the
payment engine all they do all day long
is that roughly that team probably is
around 100 or so so 100 Engineers just
to with product managers right I mean it
makes sense given the size but it's 100
just to manage to do it internally yeah
yeah sometimes it's more sometimes it's
less but let's just assume that comp in
regulator is probably 30 to 50 depending
on what time of year and stuff like that
we're so it's a couple hundred it's a
company right just doing those
foundational parts of the platform so
that everything else gets to do what
it's supposed to do so to full if you
really want to do all of payments and
payment process and transactions
in-house it could take you five years
just in the US and 150 folks to maintain
the engine it's got to be ultra cord
your vision to to do that because it is
a whole that's a whole right there yeah
there's lot there's lots of tech debt on
the software experience yeah because we
were building a payment engine by the
way there's Tech debt on pay every part
of every any company that's 18 years old
is going to have some tech debt but it
is it's balancing the investment across
all these different things is one of the
the that's my job and hopefully I've
done a good job at it so all right one
last related question on
this I'm seeing the last two years or so
smbs demanding much more so like you
were early with your vision to do all of
this to do Network to do payments very
Visionary and great I think today SBS
are expecting every product to be that
elegant every product to I I don't want
to forget about integrating my bank I
wanted to do everything like I wanted to
do payments workflow AI which we'll talk
about everything it's just the bar right
are you seeing any tangible difference
in what smbs are expecting I think the
bar's gone way up the last two years
right we can go back to when you and I
were starting yeah EO sign and Bill we
were cloud-based companies probably
right about then the cloud was coming
around and if we went into an investor
how many cloud-based companies were
there dozens yeah that's what we were
competing against now thousands so what
that tells consumers and and all of us
is that there's too much Choice which is
why consumers small businesses I think
of as consumers are asking for
consolidation which is why we've
acquired companies is why we built our
platform to continue to be extensible to
continue to have more financial
operations into it so we can be at the
heart of their business right we want to
be that Hub and I think that's just it's
good because all these Solutions are
doing something and I think the thing
that I would recommend to any founder to
think about is how do you go from being
a product to a company there's lots of
products out there in those thousand
companies yeah not all of them are
Standalone companies and so making sure
you think about how do you make that
leap to that getting acquired is good
right but there are opportunities that
if you think early enough there might be
some Standalone company opportunities
yeah that's a different way to put I I
find that there's a lot of there's much
more pressure in SMB Enterprise for
differ hasb to be multi-product earlier
yeah because it's not that the customers
are thinking multi-product or sweet or
Point solution they just want it to do
it
all too much choice to buy too much they
just grocery store and if you're trying
to find a bottle of wine there's a
thousand bottles of wine yeah what do
you do if there's five you have you can
figure that out yeah
it is interesting we talked about 85%
gross that's pretty good but if folks
haven't thought about this listen
there's a million products there's
banking as a service it's amazing
software right I pre- stripe I can't
imagine pull what we did at E I didn't
want to tell you what we did with this
crazy into it yeah day way the they're
magical but you'll never get this yeah
you'll never get and these are the best
products these are amazing software but
I don't know how many do that but if
you're willing to invest 5 years and 150
100 engineers and 50 folks you can and
this is super
powerful just a small thing this just I
only put this up because you brought it
up and sorry if this is a little bit of
an analyst call regurgitated but you're
among friends there's no toughies here
used to the analyst call um but this was
interesting you called out six quarter
CAC I think everyone gets CAC wrong they
miscalculate it they don't know what's
the right goal why is
this what Bill's efficient right so at a
meta level we can look at the top and
bottom line why is six quarters if
what's the right target for snbs at your
price point how do you think about it at
scale if I go way back talk to my dad
had a payroll company sold TP we trp for
a while the rule of thumb was always one
year's worth of Revenue right which is
four quarters because the customer
lasted four years yeah and six quarters
for us is customer is going to last
longer than four years like we know that
we also know that as they spend more
time with us they're going to do more
but so from day one we've always thought
about having a very viable business
model like you don't wait to build the
business model don't wait to say oh I
get the customers they will come and
I'll figure it out no have your model
maybe you don't charge at first but have
a model that says okay at this price
point I'm going to be able to have this
like I've always had that and we've
always delivered been able to deliver
because we were knew what we were
building tours and so right now six
feels right a lot of Market opportunity
in front of us that's very efficient and
the lifetime value of the customer
continues to grow so you might say that
maybe six is too light because customers
do last a long time you add all these
payment products on it it's a lot of
value that gets added to Bill but six
feels like the right balance and
managing a p&l is always about balancing
yeah I think some folks that sell the
smbs especially maybe up to 1020 million
have pretty high churn pretty high churn
and I don't I'm you're public so I'm not
asking you I don't know what you
disclose or don't no no pressure but I
don't know what your Lo but your logo
retention has to be pretty strong forbs
to sustain you can have up and down with
transactions but if the logos aren't
staying three or four years you can't do
six quarters can you yeah no so what
we've shared is that we're at 86% logo
retention % yeah and it's really that
that's approaching the 90% 90 and well
it's that first 90 days to your point
like you were talking earlier like if
somebody uses it yeah then we're golden
then it's longer than then it's better
than 86 right but first 90 days we have
high attrition because they haven't
adopted
yeah and then we get them on and then
it's become stickier and stickier every
day that they use it I find most public
companies exclude those customers
there's usually an Astros and Dagger
that says 86% excluding customers that
leave in the first I think the majority
actually do it that way yeah way we
measure it is at the end of our fiscal
year how many do we have a year later
that's the right way to do that's the
86% right but if we were to actually
exclude those customers we actually
would have higher because those
customers are some of the ones that are
trit right that's the answer and I
should have known that I I'm guessing
for smbs 86% top 1% top 1% yeah yeah
that's what I get
wrong okay one just small question I
want to make sure we have time for the
other ones
but another little bit of hubris with
folks that sell the smbs is they get too
caught up in Tams 33 million smbs in the
US 134 across the world something
whatever the numbers are but the true
to's often smaller and now you're
sitting north of a billion in
Revenue how you thinking about what are
the learnings of the real Tam and how to
think about at this scale The Tam
continues to expand because of the
ability for us to add more and more
products and services that fall into the
financial operations yeah so there Tam's
two things it's customers and then it's
products right yeah and so we've been
able to make both grow
I would say though that our core
customer Tam is day one is six million
businesses that have employees yeah and
that still that hasn't grown we could
grow it internationally to the I don't
know it's I think 35 million that have
employees
internationally and I do think you need
to be a little bit bigger have employees
for it to be to have that value that you
see but I do think hey we can continue
to add Tam by adding payment products
now one of the things that we've changed
in the last
few years is how we think about our
Network so we would say they're network
members yeah and internally we're saying
actually suppliers are also customers
right and the reason being is 30% of our
core Bill Revenue comes from suppliers
that are making a choice about of
payment so we need to build experiences
for them we built an experience which
they gave a choice but if you think
about that 30% of bill for Revenue have
we allocated 30% of the teams to focus
on that like we haven't yet and but
that's a way for us to continue to
expand the T because if you're any
anybody who's connected in our Network
having an opportunity to become a full
customer bill that's a great opportunity
using any of the card products is a
great opportunity using any of the
international payment like all these
things are things that invoice
acceleration we have a new product
called invoice financing that's in Alpha
Beta that lets the supplier say you know
what I don't want to wait for Jason to
pay me in 45 days he always pays in 45
days but I don't want to wait for that
I'm going to actually get paid Now by
Bill and Bill's going to take a fee for
that like there's so many ways to expand
the T and our job is to think about one
going after the original t which is the
customers but then expanding it so we
have more opportunity surf so let me ask
you a related question this is something
I'm trying to learn in real time right
now I'm asking the best is there as you
get to Bill scale okay 33 million smbs
in the US nominally you've got 500,000
customers roughly okay so that's only
1.2% penetration but are there do you
hit like maybe not headwinds
but higher density is it harder past a
certain point to just penetrate Tam or
is it not harder this is because I on
the one hand I'm looking at a lot of SAS
companies that are hitting nine figures
and struggling a lot of them have 10 20%
market share in their core Tam yeah and
they're feeling like I can do it but my
cac's going up it's getting harder other
stories are the opposite so I don't know
the I'm relearning this lesson today
when there's headwinds just because a
penetration yeah I I have a one of our
board members the lead director Pete
kite started checkfree so the original
consumer founder CEO of checkfree and I
remember him like three years ago saying
to me you know what you can't predict
tipping points can't predict tipping
points you only see them behind you yeah
and the reason I say that is like it it
on the core Bill platform out of
employers it's 3% of so 3% of six
use the core Bill all the value that you
talked about the beginning 3% of
businesses have
that why is it not
97% that's the question I'm asking yeah
exactly and so you have to keep Building
Solutions and distribution we'll talk
about that right you have to have
different ways for customers to come in
but there I believe there will be a
Tipping Point when it's just oh that's
what everybody does I think the
Network's part of creating that Tipping
Point like when the if you signed up
theor work on day one there was nobody
that was already there now you sign up
it's probably four to seven suppliers
that you work with that are already
connected yeah that's pretty cool now
what about and maybe that's only 25% of
your suppliers something like that what
about when that's 95% of your suppliers
right those things are happening it's
growing and I think that creates the
Tipping Point that will allow for us to
continue to accelerate adoption the
ecosystem approach that we have for
distribution is super important here
because we have 8,000 accounts 8 ,000
accounts that are trusted by millions of
smbs and those accounts are saying we
can help provide strategic advisory
services for you client advisor service
is what they call it we can do that for
you if you come and use bill yeah and so
that touch Point as accountants get more
comfortable with this new category which
is a totally new category for them so we
Define Financial operations and we also
help Define client account advisory
services that means that's going to
accelerate right um the opportunities
with the embedded capabilities we've had
banks for a dozen years and now we're
extending our embed capabilities into
zero we were in beta right now with zero
right so lots of opportunities for us to
extend the The Hub of the financial
operations we have through lots of
vertical software companies right so I
guess this is back to the hard goal I'm
not satisfied there should be millions
of businesses that don't spend time
managing their back office they should
just be having fun running the business
which running a business is fun managing
business sucks right and that there's a
difference and so anyways I think we
have a ways to go so I super excited
about all the things that we have in the
hopper but I also know that I'm not
going to be able to tell anybody you
know what four quarters from now
customer adoption is going to accelerate
right but I think it will at some point
so at north of a billion in Revenue if
someone on the go to market team comes
to you and says
Renee it's great it's just everyone's
already using Bill like it's just
getting harder to find folks to buy us
we already have half a million would you
throw them out of the office or would
you have empathy or would you how would
you react to because I hear versions of
this a lot today at Folks at scale it's
it's just too hard like we everyone's
we've already reached out to every
account yeah I like your phrase throw
them out of the office so because I
don't think I would actually fire
somebody I think I would just like why
do you think that I would go back to hey
the problem is this big what's why this
there are more people there like now if
somebody else had 5 million customers be
like okay maybe we are done but nobody
else has it we are still the leader
we're in front people are following us
by the way if you're following by
definition you're not a leader so like
we keep continue to innovate we'll
always be the leader as long as we
innovate and I think that creates
opportunities for us so that would be
the
conversation but if they came multiple
times saying that then they might not be
at the company that long so all right
yeah was funny we had Andrew Baki from
clavio yesterday they're just crossing a
billion and it seems what they do is
Niche if you don't know e-commerce it's
smbs but it's mostly marketing and SMS
it's more to e-commerce and I'm like but
he's like why can't and they have
probably 60% market share in the Shopify
ecosystem 60 right yeah and I asked them
questions no it's not good why can't we
have 90 why can't we have 85 and it was
a little bit of an ass kicking for me on
the question I guess you're right it's
like people that say you can't get more
than a certain amount of market share
just don't want to win their Market yeah
they just don't want to win their market
and you should try to win your Market in
software right try to win it yeah yeah
we've seen this in other companies any
of the the seven Mega caps whatever you
want to call them mean they they have
all of that market competition is good I
think we all want there to be more
competition in some of these companies
just smaller than you you want yeah yeah
there's plenty of
time okay maybe just a couple maybe I'll
just pick a couple few things but one
small thing you guys bought divvy while
back right we knew them a little bit
Founders old saster
fans but I didn't know what the Synergy
seemed great okay so you've got to
manage expense management for real
elegant next good good ICP match right a
lot of customers bread and butter
customers not all
techies but I wasn't sure if it would
work different company different
software different stack and this space
went from Sleepy
to Mega fraking in competitive over it
just all of a sudden no one want to do
the space then we've got brex and ramp
and divy and 78 others I've never heard
of it just and I'm like maybe I don't
know if this is going to work just
because it's so competitive but not that
we can all squint and see your numbers
it has worked yeah in fact it's like
your second act in some ways isn't it
yeah it's a huge part of the growth so
what's the how do you make why did it
work how do you make like this kind of
thing work this acquired second act and
what what's the we could spend half an
hour on it but what are the cop
takeaways from this I think one of the
advantages that we have at bills that
all the bills are inside of Bill yeah
and so when we started to see these
companies pop up we're like do we have
customers paying any of those people and
we could see customers paying all of
them and then we could see that most of
them were using divy at the time oh you
already saw it just we saw it inside the
platform to those customers and we
talked to customers that used all the
products you mentioned and what we
consistently heard was people that use
div is that's the best solution and so
that became easy for us to say no we're
going to go we're going to go do this
because it fits with financial
operations but and I think they lead
with software a lot of it about workflow
budgeting these are things that matter
for our customers and so we obviously
got together and been super happy it's
been a
great Blake and the team built a great
company and lots of great value added
across the customer experiences they
have and now in inside a bill like it
takes time like I think sometimes maybe
in hindsight I might have wanted to have
everything seamlessly fit together like
a glove day one and it's a big
acquisition it it does fit together
seamlessly now and it's
awesome and the spend expense platform
that used to be divy now buil it's
growing exceptionally well so 30 roughly
30% year-over year and it's because it's
got the same bones as we got like we're
going to be managing Credit in that
business is super hard
and we again AI like super hard right
this is how you do it right we we're
using the platform we got data obviously
across the entire platform to leverage
so I think that gives us an advantage
and I think distribution matters if you
think about it there is a lot of
excitement around the category but the
category is still less than I don't know
75,000 100,000 businesses that are using
the product it's pretty small BR it's
pretty small and by the way AMX and JP
Morgan and Capital
One they are going to spend time on this
and we believe that our embeded
partnership strategy will help but we'll
see like at some point it's going to be
important to be able to serve snbs
wherever they come from yeah it's
interesting and when a big act this divy
was 2 point something billion dollars
right not a small decision as a Founder
right no that was one of the biggest
it's one of the ones the COO has to do
right sta you gotta tell the board we're
just doing it yeah but the fact that you
could already see it in the data because
this was the high Affinity to your
customer base right it was not whether
it was going to work or not it's a
natural discussion to have right for
that reason right yeah all right know
we're almost at a time just two more
things then we'll
break real AI at Bill what's really
happening it's half the discussions
today yeah on the way I know it's not
it's it's only distantly adjacent to
Bill but the last IPO he had was one
stream bootst all the way to 100 million
super Enterprise for CFOs but in finance
right and they said that the COO said
yeah our CFOs don't really they're
nervous they don't want our public
company financials screwed up with like
we're into it but we're taking a very
cautious approach what what's your
nitty-gritty learning for AI I think the
the first thing I would say is that
fundamental Technologies become
fundamental yeah not because of hype so
this is a fundamental technology it's
going to be integrated inside of all of
our platforms it's going to be
integrated in all of our customer
service touch points it's going to be
integrated across all the engineering
it's going to be fully integrated and
and if it's fundamental it's not oh
here's my AI chatbot yes we'll have some
of that but that's not what actually is
going to make Bill successful it's going
to be how do we leverage AI across the
risk engine like literally it hundreds
of millions of transactions a year go
through bill worth hundreds of billions
of dollars we have some machine learning
there we have some people there like how
do we continue to enhance that so we can
get more comfortable moving money faster
and sooner for new customers that's a
good example of AI we have opportunities
to think about when the the transactions
come in there's five million predictions
a day using AI today on the all the
documents that are coming through bill
now is it at the level of
of that we don't have hallucinations but
is it at the level that we want it to be
out no like that's going to continue to
be fine but we're not going to sell
customers hey we have ai we're going to
say send us your documents we enter the
bill we create the workflow and we just
te it up for you to approve or to pay
like you're done like that that's the
vision AI is going to be part of that so
I think that the hype AI I understand
why some companies do that but I think
it's really it's a fundamental
technology that's going to be a
fundamental part of everyone's platform
and so then it shouldn't be hyped it
should be actually integrated and
completely part of how you think about
what you do whether it's customer
oriented or product or platform oriented
yeah and then so last question then
we're over and we'll break but so
fundamental do smbs the type of and
yours are really vsnb a lot of them very
small but are they asking you about AI
like the Enterprise do they use AI or
they just are they or is this is this
something to make our products much
better but not demanded by the smallest
businesses yeah so nobody's ever asked
me for a cloud-based software or AI or
what they ask for is can you get rid of
this paino
and the pain point is they don't like
entering data they don't like workflow
they want to move money fast like they
ask for those pain points we have
insights and forecasting now that helps
a business really be strategic about
where they're spending different than
the accounting because it's really just
about the what's going through my cash
basis and that gets you more real data
quickly they don't ask for they ask for
the paino and that's what we go to solve
and what technology we use they don't
care they just want it done they want it
safe secure and all the things that we
do it's our job as the company to make
sure that we're building on a platform
that can scale and continue to grow and
evolve as time moves on all right thank
you I know over let's give a big round
of applause this was great thanks sir